{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri Light;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri Light;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b\f0\fs40\lang9 #\cf0 Diet Sentry overview\par

\pard\li721\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\kerning2\b0\f1\fs22\lang3081 This application can assist in dieting and healthy nutrition by enabling the user to record the food they eat during the day. In particular the energy (in kJ) and a range of nutrients and ingredients.\par
\kerning0\f2\lang9 To record the eating of a food the user selects its row from the DataGrid in the <Food> tab and double clicks the mouse or presses the \{Enter\} Key. They can then enter the amount consumed in either grams or millilitres (if the food is a liquid). Once the \{Enter\} key is pressed the details of this food are copied with a time stamp to a row of the DataGrid in the <Eaten> tab to which focus is then passed.\par
The foods displayed in the DataGrid of the <Eaten> tab can then be totalled for a particular day. This shows how much energy, nutrients and ingredients where consumed in total.\par
The database of foods is quite comprehensive however the user can add new foods. The editing, detailed viewing and deleting of foods is also possible. There a three types of foods: Liquids, Solids and Recipies. \par
The foods database and units are unashamedly based on Australian standards with energy recorded in kJ and not Calories, while other quantities are measured in millilitres (mL) or grams (g) or even mg and \'b5g as appropriate. Dates are in the sensible dd-MMM-yyyy format and the time of day is based on 24 hours (not AM and PM).\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b\f0\fs36 #\cf0 Foods table\par

\pard\li721\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\b0\f2\fs22 Each record (table row) stores details of a particular food item. In particular a text description and then energy content and amounts of various nutrients and quantities. In all cases these are based on either 100g or 100mL of the food. If the foods description ends with the characters "mL*" or "mL" the food is measured in millilitres (mL), otherwise in grams (g).\par
This table is stored in the SQLiite foods.db database distributed with this application. It can be directly examined or edited with many available applications. Eg. DB Browser for SQLite. The table is visible via a DataGrid component in the <Food> tab of the applications main form, with the assumed units visible in the headers.\par
Below are the self explanatory internal names and details of a records fields.\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1 CREATE TABLE "Foods" (\par
\tab "FoodId"\tab INTEGER NOT NULL,\par
\tab "FoodDescription"\tab TEXT NOT NULL,\par
\tab "Energy"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "Protein"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "FatTotal"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "SaturatedFat"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "TransFat"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "PolyunsaturatedFat"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "MonounsaturatedFat"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "Carbohydrate"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "Sugars"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "DietaryFibre"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "SodiumNa"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "CalciumCa"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "PotassiumK"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "ThiaminB1"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "RiboflavinB2"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "NiacinB3"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "Folate"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "IronFe"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "MagnesiumMg"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "VitaminC"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "Caffeine"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "Cholesterol"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab "Alcohol"\tab REAL NOT NULL,\par
\tab CONSTRAINT "FoodId" PRIMARY KEY("FoodId" AUTOINCREMENT)\par
);\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\tab\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b\f0\fs36 #\cf0 Food DataGrid\fs40\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\kerning2\b0\f1\fs22\lang3081 This DataGrid displays data from the Foods table and enables interaction with it.\par
 This application can assist in dieting and healthy nutrition by enabling the user to record the food they eat during the day. In particular the energy (in kJ) and a range of nutrients and ingredients.\par
\kerning0\f2\lang9 To record the eating of a food the user selects its row from the dataGrid in the <Food> tab and double clicks the mouse or presses the \{Enter\} Key. They can then enter the amount consumed in either grams or millilitres (if the food is a liquid). Once the \{Enter\} key is pressed the details of this food are copied with a time stamp to a row of the dataGrid in the <Eaten> tab to which focus is then passed.\par
The foods displayed in the dataGrid of the <Eaten> tab can then be totalled for a particular day. This shows how much energy, nutrients and ingredients where consumed in total.\par
The database of foods is quite comprehensive however the user can add new foods. The editing, detailed viewing and deleting of foods is also possible. There a three types of foods: Liquids, Solids and Recipies. \par
The foods database and units are unashamedly based on Australian standards with energy recorded in kJ and not Calories, while other quantities are measured in millilitres (mL) or grams (g) or even mg and \'b5g as appropriate. Dates are in the sensible dd-MMM-yyyy format and the time of day is based on 24 hours (not AM and PM).\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs36 #\cf0 Food filter\par

\pard\li721\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\b0\f2\fs22 There is a TextBox above the Food DataGrid (in the <Food> tab). You type text into it and press the \{Enter\} key. As a result the DataGrid only displays those foods whose "Food Description" field contains that text. The TextBox is then cleared, with the filter text now displayed to its right and focus shifts to the now selected top row in the DataGrid. Sorting is ascending with respect to the <Id> field (internally called "FoodId"). Note: if the filter gives no results the focus remains in the TextBox.\line\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs36 #\cf0 Food CheckBox\par

\pard\li721\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\b0\f2\fs22 There is one CheckBox above the Food DataGrid (in the <Food> tab). It is titled "Only show main columns".\par
When Unchecked the DataGrid displays all fields from the foods table.\par
When Checked a subset of nutritional information is displayed. In particular only the fields :\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\tab "FoodId"\par
\tab "FoodDescription"\par
\tab "Energy"\par
\tab "Protein"\par
\tab "FatTotal"\par
\tab "SaturatedFat"\par
\tab "Carbohydrate"\par
\tab "Sugars"\par
\tab "DietaryFibre"\par
\tab "SodiumNa"\par

\pard\li721\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\li721\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj Shown here using the internal food table names and not the actual headers.\line\cf1\b\f0\fs36\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj #\cf0 Eaten table\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b0\f2\fs22 Each record (table row) stores details of a particular amount of food consumed. In particular a time stamp of when consumption occured (or was recorded), the amount eaten in grams or millilitres, the foods text description and then the actual amounts of Energy, nutrients and ingredients consumed.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b\f0\fs36 #\cf0 Eaten DataGrid\fs40\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\kerning2\b0\f1\fs22\lang3081 This DataGrid displays data from the Foods table and enables interaction with it.\par
 This application can assist in dieting and healthy nutrition by enabling the user to record the food they eat during the day. In particular the energy (in kJ) and a range of nutrients and ingredients.\par
\kerning0\f2\lang9 To record the eating of a food the user selects its row from the dataGrid in the <Food> tab and double clicks the mouse or presses the \{Enter\} Key. They can then enter the amount consumed in either grams or millilitres (if the food is a liquid). Once the \{Enter\} key is pressed the details of this food are copied with a time stamp to a row of the dataGrid in the <Eaten> tab to which focus is then passed.\par
The foods displayed in the dataGrid of the <Eaten> tab can then be totalled for a particular day. This shows how much energy, nutrients and ingredients where consumed in total.\par
The database of foods is quite comprehensive however the user can add new foods. The editing, detailed viewing and deleting of foods is also possible. There a three types of foods: Liquids, Solids and Recipies. \par
The foods database and units are unashamedly based on Australian standards with energy recorded in kJ and not Calories, while other quantities are measured in millilitres (mL) or grams (g) or even mg and \'b5g as appropriate. Dates are in the sensible dd-MMM-yyyy format and the time of day is based on 24 hours (not AM and PM).\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b\f0\fs36 #\cf0 Help system error\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\kerning2\b0\f1\fs22\lang3081 This DataGrid displays data from the Foods table and enables interaction with it.\par
 This application can assist in dieting and healthy nutrition by enabling the user to record the food they eat during the day. In particular the energy (in kJ) and a range of nutrients and ingredients.\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\kerning0\b\f0\fs40\lang9\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\b0\f2\fs22\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\par
\par
\cf1\b\f0\fs36\par
}
 